---
title: Contextualisation and Statement
publish_date: 2023-04-07
---

The "Survival Marketplace" is a visionary response to the impending challenges posed by global warming, environmental degradation, and the collapse of global supply chains. As climate catastrophes escalate, essential resources become increasingly scarce, necessitating innovative approaches to ensure survival. In this future scenario, the traditional functionalities of e-commerce platforms are repurposed to enable users to access crucial products for basic survival. Technology becomes a lifeline, connecting individuals on a local scale out of sheer necessity rather than convenience.

The key design elements of the "Survival Marketplace" reflect the characteristics of a dystopian world in which society has crumbled, and individuals face the harsh realities of a desert wasteland. The platform incorporates various features tailored to assist users in finding and acquiring vital goods in a world where global supply chains are no longer viable.

The community forum space, aptly named "The Last City," serves as a hub for users to discuss survival strategies, share tips, and connect with others facing similar circumstances. These forums and the private messaging function enable users to develop a social context within this dystopian world. Engaging in dialogue, users can share their struggles, exchange information about resource availability, negotiate trades based on their possessions, and establish relationships built upon the shared goal of survival. The chat functions, thus, become a critical tool for users to navigate this barren landscape and support one another in their quest for survival.

In terms of visual design, the "Survival Marketplace" website adopts an early web aesthetic to mirror the scarcity of technological resources in this imagined future. Inspired by the reliable and resilient technology utilised in space missions, the website's design emulates older models of desktop computers. By intentionally embracing outdated technology, the design emphasises the need to make do with limited resources and accentuates the collapse of modern civilisation. The rough and harsh aesthetics create a stark contrast to the clean and intuitive designs associated with contemporary technology, immersing users in a visually unsettling experience that embodies the narrative of a world in crisis.

Ultimately, the "Survival Marketplace" serves as a speculative design project that tackles the potential consequences of global trends. Through its design and functionalities, the website offers a platform for individuals to access essential goods and connect with one another in preparation for a future where self-reliance and survival strategies are paramount. It prompts critical reflection and exploration of potential solutions to address the challenges posed by climate change, overpopulation, and the collapse of societal structures. The "Survival Marketplace" embodies the essence of speculative design, paving the way for envisioning alternative futures and prompting proactive engagement with the issues at hand.
